applications: nrf5340_audio: Add DFU testing to doc (#8518)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/nrf5340_audio/README.rst

  When building using the command line, you must explicitly specify if :file:`prj_release.conf` is going to be included instead of :file:`prj.conf`.
  See :ref:`nrf53_audio_app_building` for details.

> Requirements for FOTA

Reviewer: If this is the first time FOTA is mentioned, we should explain the abbreviation.

Author: Done

=====================

> To test FOTA you need an Android or iOS device with the `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ app installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test FOTA, you need an Android or iOS device with the `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ app installed.
```

Author: Done

> If you want to do FOTA upgrades for the application core and the network core at the same time you need an external flash shield.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to do FOTA upgrades for the application core and the network core at the same time, you need an external flash shield.
```

Author: Done

> If you want to do FOTA upgrades for the application core and the network core at the same time you need an external flash shield.

Reviewer: We must add something like this: Performing separate application and network core upgrades are suitable for testing, but for production, both cores must be updated at the same time. When updates takes place in the inter-core communication module (HCI RPMsg) communication between the cores will break if they are not updated together.

Author: Added this text to the 'important' part under "Configuring FOTA upgrades"

Configuring FOTA upgrades
=========================

> .. important::
> 	Firmware based on NCS versions earlier than 2.1.0 does not support DFU, and it is then not possible to do FOTA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. important::
	Firmware based on the |NCS| versions earlier than v2.1.0 does not support DFU.
	FOTA is not available for those versions.
```

Author: Done

Configuring FOTA upgrades
=========================

> .. important::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note::
```

Shouldn't this be just a note?

Author: This is very important information, so I think it should be important::

Reviewer 3: Then use caution. We usually use only 3 kinds of notes: note, caution and warning (for risk of damage or injury)

Author: Changed to caution

Configuring FOTA upgrades
=========================

.. important::
	Firmware based on the |NCS| versions earlier than v2.1.0 does not support DFU.
	FOTA is not available for those versions.

> 	Performing separate application and network core upgrades are suitable for testing,
> 	but for production, both cores must be updated at the same time.
> 	When updates take place in the inter-core communication module (HCI RPMsg), communication
> 	between the cores will break if they are not updated together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	You can test performing separate application and network core upgrades, but for production, both cores must be updated at the same time.
	When updates take place in the inter-core communication module (HCI RPMsg), communication between the cores will break if they are not updated together.
```

Author: Done

----------------------

The FOTA upgrades are only available when :ref:`nrf53_audio_app_building_script`.

> With the appropriate parameters provided, the :file:`buildprog.py` Python script will add overlay files for the given DFU type.
> To use internal flash memory layout include the ``-m internal`` parameter, and to use external flash memory layout include the ``-m external`` paramteter.
> To use the minimal size network core bootloader add the ``-M`` parameter.
> For the full list of parameters and examples, see the :ref:`nrf53_audio_app_building_script_running` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the appropriate parameters provided, the :file:`buildprog.py` Python script will add overlay files for the given DFU type.
To enable the desired FOTA functions:

* To define flash memory layout, include the ``-m internal`` parameter for the internal layout or the ``-m external`` parameter for the external layout.
* To use the minimal size network core bootloader, add the ``-M`` parameter.

For the full list of parameters and examples, see the :ref:`nrf53_audio_app_building_script_running` section.
```

Author: Done

.. _nrf53_audio_app_testing:

> Testing the application
> =======================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Testing
=======
```
This is always called "Testing", per template.

Author: Changed back to "Testing"

.. _nrf53_audio_app_porting_guide:

> Testing FOTA upgrades
> =====================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Testing FOTA upgrades
---------------------
```

Author: Done

> `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ can be used for testing FOTA upgrades.

Reviewer 2: This is a requirement for DFU, so we need a subsection under Requirements "Requirements for FOTA" with this info.

Author: Added a Requirements for FOTA section

> Complete the following steps to test upgrading the firmware on both cores at the same time on a gateway device (the procedure is identical for upgrading headset firmware):

Reviewer 4: This is a very long sentence
```suggestion
Complete the following steps to test upgrading the firmware on both cores at the same time:
```

Author: Changed to what Greg suggested

> Complete the following steps to test upgrading the firmware on both cores at the same time on a gateway device (the procedure is identical for upgrading headset firmware):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The procedure for upgrading the firmware is identical for both headset and gateway firmware.
You can test upgrading the firmware on both cores at the same time on a gateway device by completing the following steps:
```

Author: Done

> 1. Install `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ on your Android or iOS device.

Reviewer 2: An Android/iOS device is also a requirement.

Author: Added a Requirements for FOTA section

> #. Connect an external flash shield to the gateway. See :ref:`nrf53_audio_app_configuration_configure_fota` for details.

Reviewer 2: External flash is also a requirement that should go into the "Requirements for FOTA" section.
The configuration link should be mentioned as step 1: "Make sure you <configured the gateway for DFU using external flash memory>."
I assume that "make sure the gateway runs a fw that supports external flash memory" means configuring the Kconfigs mentioned here? https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/ug_nrf5340.html#ug-nrf5340-multi-image-dfu If so, we need this mentioned explicitly in the Configuring FOTA section.

Author: Added external flash shield to the "Requirements for FOTA" section.
Made the configuration link as step 1.
See next comment

> #. Make sure the gateway runs a firmware that supports DFU using external flash memory.

Reviewer 2: See comment above.

Author: This means "make sure the gateway runs a firmware that has been built by using buildprog.py with the '-m external' parameter"

> #. Use the buildprog.py script to create a .zip folder containing new firmware for both cores.
>    This can be done by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Use the :file:`buildprog.py` script to create a zip folder that contains new firmware for both cores:
```
```

Author: Done

   .. code-block:: console

      python buildprog.py -c both -b debug -d gateway --pristine -m external

   .. note::

>       If you use Linux, the ``python`` command must excute Python 3.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this valid for all buildprog commands in this document, not only the DFU one?

Author: This is only a requirement when building for DFU, since the 'python' command is hard coded into some of the DFU Python files.

When building non-DFU things with buildprog.py you can run "python3 buildprog.py (...)", and then the 'python' command can execute Python 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   .. note::
      If you use FOTA on Linux, the ``python`` command must excute Python 3.
```

Reviewer: excute -> execute

Author: Changed to When using the FOTA related functionality in the :file:`buildprog.py` script on Linux, it is required that the ``python`` command executes Python 3.

Done

> #. Transfer the generated .zip file to your Android or iOS device. The file name should start with :file:`dev_gateway_build_debug_dfu_application`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Transfer the generated zip file to your Android or iOS device.
   The file name should start with :file:`dev_gateway_build_debug_dfu_application`.
```

Author: Done

>    It is possible to use cloud services like Google Drive, Dropbox or iCloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For transfer, you can use cloud services like Google Drive for Android or iCloud for iOS.
```
I'd stick to "official" cloud services for respective platforms.

Author: Agreed, done.

> #. Open `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ and look for ``NRF5340_AUDIO_GW_DFU`` in the scanned devices window.

Reviewer 4: Maybe add a list over the three different possibilities? 

- NRF5340_AUDIO_GW_DFU
- NRF5340_AUDIO_HL_DFU
- NRF5340_AUDIO_HR_DFU

Reviewer 2: We mention explicitly testing the gateway in the introduction to the procedure.
HL and HR could be added in a note, but not in the proper testing step.

Author: There is already a list of these three on line 876-878

> #. Tap on ``NRF5340_AUDIO_GW_DFU`` and then on the downward arrow icon at the bottom of the screen.
> #. Under the ``Firmware Upgrade`` section tap ``SELECT FILE``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Tap on :guilabel:`NRF5340_AUDIO_GW_DFU` and then on the downward arrow icon at the bottom of the screen.
#. In the :guilabel:`Firmware Upgrade` section, tap :guilabel:`SELECT FILE`.
```

Author: Done

> #. Select the .zip file you transferred to the device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Select the zip file you transferred to the device.
```

Author: Done. Maybe zip should be written with capital letters? Like zip = ZIP?

> #. Tap ``START`` and then ``START`` again in the pop-up window. The DFU should now start.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Tap :guilabel:`START` and then :guilabel:`START` again in the notification to start the DFU process.
```

Author: Done

> #. When the DFU has finished, verify that the new application core and network core firmare works properly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. When the DFU has finished, verify that the new application core and network core firmware works properly.
```

Author: Done

.. _nrf53_audio_app_porting_guide:

Testing FOTA upgrades
---------------------

`nRF Connect Device Manager`_ can be used for testing FOTA upgrades.
The procedure for upgrading the firmware is identical for both headset and gateway firmware.
You can test upgrading the firmware on both cores at the same time on a gateway device by completing the following steps:

1. Make sure you have :ref:`done the necessary configurations for FOTA. <nrf53_audio_app_configuration_configure_fota>`
#. Install `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ on your Android or iOS device.
#. Connect an external flash shield to the gateway.

> #. Make sure the gateway runs a firmware that supports DFU using external flash memory.

Reviewer: "gateway/headset"?

Author: These steps are specific for the gateway:

"The procedure for upgrading the firmware is identical for both headset and gateway firmware.
You can test upgrading the firmware on both cores at the same time on **a gateway** device by completing the following steps:"

#. Use the :file:`buildprog.py` script to create a zip folder that contains new firmware for both cores:

   .. code-block:: console

      python buildprog.py -c both -b debug -d gateway --pristine -m external

   .. note::
      If you use Linux, the ``python`` command must excute Python 3.

#. Transfer the generated zip file to your Android or iOS device.

>    The file name should start with :file:`dev_gateway_build_debug_dfu_application`.

Reviewer: Suggest we use headset as the default sample as that is what most users will upgrade.

Author: Agreed, done.

   For transfer, you can use cloud services like Google Drive for Android or iCloud for iOS.

> #. Open `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ and look for ``NRF5340_AUDIO_GW_DFU`` in the scanned devices window.

Reviewer: Did we mention how to get into DFU mode on the device itself?

Author: This should be covered by step 4, I expanded this step

.. _nrf53_audio_app_porting_guide:

Testing FOTA upgrades
---------------------

`nRF Connect Device Manager`_ can be used for testing FOTA upgrades.
The procedure for upgrading the firmware is identical for both headset and gateway firmware.
You can test upgrading the firmware on both cores at the same time on a headset device by completing the following steps:

1. Make sure you have :ref:`configured the application for FOTA <nrf53_audio_app_configuration_configure_fota>`.
#. Install `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ on your Android or iOS device.
#. Connect an external flash shield to the headset.
#. Make sure the headset runs a firmware that supports DFU using external flash memory.
   One way of doing this is to connect the headset to the USB port, turn it on, and then run this command:

   .. code-block:: console

      python buildprog.py -c both -b debug -d headset --pristine -m external -p

   .. note::

>       When using the FOTA related functionality in the :file:`buildprog.py` script on Linux, it is required that the ``python`` command executes Python 3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      When using the FOTA related functionality in the :file:`buildprog.py` script on Linux, the ``python`` command must run Python 3.
```

Author: Changed this sentence based on your suggestion

> #. Use the :file:`buildprog.py` script to create a zip folder that contains new firmware for both cores:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Use the :file:`buildprog.py` script to create a zip file that contains new firmware for both cores:
```

We call it a zip file 2 lines later

Author: Good catch, fixed

   .. code-block:: console

      python buildprog.py -c both -b debug -d headset --pristine -m external

#. Transfer the generated zip file to your Android or iOS device.
   The file name should start with :file:`dev_headset_build_debug_dfu_application`.
   For transfer, you can use cloud services like Google Drive for Android or iCloud for iOS.

> #. Open `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ and look for ``NRF5340_AUDIO_HL_DFU`` in the scanned devices window. The headset is left by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Open `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ and look for ``NRF5340_AUDIO_HL_DFU`` in the scanned devices window.
   The headset is left by default.
```

Author: Done

.. _nrf53_audio_app_porting_guide:

Testing FOTA upgrades
---------------------

`nRF Connect Device Manager`_ can be used for testing FOTA upgrades.
The procedure for upgrading the firmware is identical for both headset and gateway firmware.
You can test upgrading the firmware on both cores at the same time on a headset device by completing the following steps:

> 1. Make sure you have :ref:`done the necessary configurations for FOTA. <nrf53_audio_app_configuration_configure_fota>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Make sure you have :ref:`configured the application for FOTA <nrf53_audio_app_configuration_configure_fota>`.
```

Additional Disclaimer for the nRF5340 Audio application

>    This application and the LE Audio Controller Subsystem for nRF53 are marked as experimental.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This application and the LE Audio Controller Subsystem for nRF53 are marked as :ref:`experimental <software_maturity>`.
```

Author: Done

>    The DFU/FOTA functionality in this application is also marked as experimental.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The DFU/FOTA functionality in this application is also marked as :ref:`experimental <software_maturity>`.
```

Author: Done
